go ipfs
0.7 is going to be coming out very soon
um so let's go into a little bit of
what's going to be in there
all right so first off uh we are
disabling um secio support by default
so secio is a security protocol
that we've been using for uh a long time
to make sure that peers can securely
communicate with each other
um in general it's good it's good
practice to try and
use protocols that are are sort of
widely supported
in the cryptographic space um and so
we've started to move we've moved
towards um
other protocols like tls and noise um
and now is the time for us to
discontinue support for
for sec il um there is a blog post
that goes into a lot more detail here
which i encourage you to check out
but the short version is that if you are
running
go ipfs uh earlier than 0.4.21
or jsipfs below 0.47
um you you should definitely upgrade
because otherwise you will not be able
to talk to other peers on the network
um this has a nice benefit
if you upgrade to the latest version
where things
uh dht dht nodes greater than go ipvs
0.5
just perform a lot better and we have
we've had a number of
uh really nice features in 0.5 and 0.6
and some coming in 0.7 so we encourage
upgrading
all right um and keys so
we are switching to using uh elliptic
curve keys edt5519 keys
by default uh these are
uh smaller and more performant than than
rsa keys
and are going to help us uh going
forward
in terms of making content like content
faster
to discover and and
basically anything that we want that is
going to involve
some sort of user-based signature is now
going to be much
faster and easier for us to do
to help with this we've also added some
commands for
key rotation and importing and exporting
them so
changing what the peer id key is
that represents your node and also
importing and exporting
ipns keys that you might be using
so for example uh you may have had your
key
previously that was some rsa key with a
peer id that looks like this
you know qm something um
and then you'll rotate it uh
to an elliptic curve key this is
actually this is the default if you
don't specify the type flag this will
just work
um and it will save your
pre-existing key because you may have
been using your pre-existing key as an
ipns key
as a publishing key so we keep that
around
and you'll see the formats change so
instead of uh you know qm something
it's starts with one two and that's
because it's actually
the key is now small enough that
we don't need to refer to some some hash
of the rsa public key like we did before
we can actually refer to the entire
elliptic curve key and so this is the
elliptic republic key is in here
if you want to change the
representations around between
say base 58 and
base 36 because maybe you want to
put the peer ids inside
of a dns a dns link
we have a new flag for studying the peer
id base
that you can use uh this is particularly
helpful for the
http over lupita p feature
that is in copy of s uh
importing exporting keys sort of works
as you would expect
um you just decide you say i want to
export the key
here's the file this is the name of the
key and when you import
you just say here's the name of the file
and this is what i want to call it once
i import it
base 36 so we have now switched the
default representation of all ips keys
to be base 36
cidv ones by default um
and this is good because
when you have um when you have sub
domains
so if you want to have you know
key.ips.localhost
or or you know dot ips.dlink.web
uh that needs to be both all in a single
case
and it needs to be small enough to fit
within the dns label size
uh and base36 allows us to do this
whereas uh base 58 did not
with with this a whole uppercase
lowercase thing
so now things should look the same uh
when you use subdomains and when you use
uh you know outputs from the ipfs
command line
additionally we're getting prepared for
having peer ids
being represented in base 36 for similar
reasons
there are still a number of laptp
implementations that
do not have uh support for
rep for representing multi addresses in
base 36
so that's not the default yet but we're
looking forward to doing that uh
in the future uh this has been a feature
it's been requested for a little while
uh being able to get some basic stats uh
out of a dag
uh in particular um let's say you just
want to get the size
of a dag not a unix fs object but the
entire dag itself
we now have a command for that this is
also good for unix fs
because um there are some shortcuts in
unix fs that allow you to
understand the size of an object without
actually reading the whole thing
but but sometimes you actually don't
want the shortcutted you know
size but the full size um
you know the full size of the data
structure
uh and finally uh don't forget to
upgrade um
on you know disc.ipfest.io uh
and we will have go ipfs uh
is it go pfs0.7.0 rc1 is already out rc2
should be out
later today